Document Find and Replace bulk action for Contacts and Companies (#750)
mautic/user-documentation: docs/companies/companies_overview.rst

These settings allow  Mautic to find and merge duplicate Companies during the import, using the Integrations Framework and in other parts of Mautic.

Batch actions

> *************

Reviewer: I feel like 'actions' is a bit technical. We might be able to replace this with something more user-friendly.

```suggestion
Batch changes
*************
```

> To update several Companies at once, select them using the checkboxes. A toolbar appears above the table with a three-dot menu listing the available batch actions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To update several Companies at once, select them using the checkboxes. A toolbar appears at the top of the table with a three-dot menu listing the available batch actions.
```

> To update several Companies at once, select them using the checkboxes. A toolbar appears at the top of the table with a three-dot menu listing the available batch actions.

Reviewer: There are a couple of things:

- I think "select them using the checkboxes" is unclear. It focuses on the tool rather than the action.

```suggestion
To apply changes to several Companies at once, select the checkboxes next to the Company names. A selection bar appears at the top of the table, showing **Delete selected** and a three-dot icon for more options.
```

The following batch actions are available:

> * **Find and Replace** - Updates field values across selected Companies by finding a specific value and replacing it with a new one. Select a Company field, enter the value to find, and specify the replacement value. Only Companies with the matching field value receive the update.

Author: Added batch actions section with Find and Replace based on [PR #16207](https://github.com/mautic/mautic/pull/16207) which adds `batchFindReplaceAction` to `CompanyController.php` and updates `Company/list.html.twig` to include the bulk action button.

Source: https://github.com/mautic/mautic/pull/16207

> * **Delete Selected** - Deletes the selected Companies.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Find and Replace** - Updates field values across selected Companies by finding a specific value and replacing it with a new one. Select a Company field, enter the value to find, and specify the replacement value. Only Companies with the matching field value receive the update.
* **Delete Selected** - Deletes the selected Companies.
```

> * **Delete Selected** - Deletes the selected Companies.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Delete Selected** - Deletes the selected Companies.
* **Find and Replace** - Replaces a value in a chosen field across all selected Companies.

   #. Click the three-dot icon to open this option.
   #. Choose the Company field to update. Search or scroll to find it in the list.
   #. Enter the value to find in **Find value**.
   #. Enter the new value in **Replace with**.
   
   Only Companies that match the **Find value** get updated.
```

Add this image:

<img width="2091" height="864" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/ce6d844d-754d-4b08-a3a9-60b6a28ae78e" />

- Add a descriptive alt text. Don't start with "Screenshot of" or anything alike. 
- When naming the file, use underscore to split the words.

> You can also access Find and Replace from the page actions menu without selecting any rows. This applies the replacement to all Companies matching your current search.

Reviewer: There are a couple of things here:

- Bold 'Find and Replace' as it's UI term.
- Use other word than 'page' to address Vale warning: [Mautic.FeatureList] Is this referring to a Mautic feature? If so, use 'Landing Page' instead of 'page'.

> You can also access **Find and Replace** from the list view actions without selecting any rows. This applies the replacement to all Companies matching your current search.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also use **Find and Replace** without selecting any rows, from the list view, by clicking the gear icon to open the options. This applies the replacement to all Companies matching your current search.
```

Add this image:

<img width="2089" height="870" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/4e2746cb-1359-4275-91c2-ecfa3ef8038f" />

- Add a descriptive alt text. Don't start with "Screenshot of" or anything alike.
- When naming the file, use underscore to split the words.

.. note::

>   You need edit permissions to use **Find and Replace**. Users with ``lead:leads:editown`` can update Companies they own, while Users with ``lead:leads:editother`` can update any Company.

Reviewer: General users don't understand code. We need to use whatever appears on UI.

```suggestion
  You need edit permissions to use Find and Replace. Users with the **Edit Own** permission under **Contacts** can update Companies they own. Users with **Edit Others** can update any Company.
```

The following batch actions are available:

* **Delete Selected** - Deletes the selected Companies.
* **Find and Replace** - Replaces a value in a chosen field across all selected Companies.

   #. Click the three-dot icon to open this option.
   #. Choose the Company field to update. Search or scroll to find it in the list.
   #. Enter the value to find in **Find value**.
   #. Enter the new value in **Replace with**.

   Only Companies that match the **Find value** get updated.

.. image:: images/companies_batch_selection_bar.png
  :width: 600
  :alt: Two selected Companies in the list with the selection bar showing Delete selected and the three-dot menu open on Find and Replace

You can also use **Find and Replace** without selecting any rows, from the list view, by clicking the gear icon to open the options. This applies the replacement to all Companies matching your current search.

.. image:: images/companies_find_and_replace_list_view.png
  :width: 600
  :alt: Companies list view with the gear icon menu open, showing the Find and Replace option

.. note::

>    You need edit permissions to use Find and Replace. Users with the **Edit Own** permission under **Contacts** can update Companies they own. Users with **Edit Others** can update any Company.

Reviewer: Please check the code changes on the code PR and confirm the below suggestion. If it's correct, use this suggestion.

```suggestion
   To use **Find and Replace**, Users need a View permission - **View Own** or **View Others** - and an Edit permission - **Edit Own** or **Edit Others** - under **Contacts**. Users with only **Edit Own** can update Companies they own. Users with **Edit Others** can update any Company.
```

These settings allow  Mautic to find and merge duplicate Companies during the import, using the Integrations Framework and in other parts of Mautic.

Batch changes
*************

To apply changes to several Companies at once, select the checkboxes next to the Company names. A selection bar appears at the top of the table, showing **Delete selected** and a three-dot icon for more options.

The following batch actions are available:

* **Delete Selected** - Deletes the selected Companies.
* **Find and Replace** - Replaces a value in a chosen field across all selected Companies.

>    #. Click the three-dot icon to open this option.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   #. Click the three-dot icon to open this option and select **Find and Replace**. This opens a dialog.
```

   #. Choose the Company field to update. Search or scroll to find it in the list.
   #. Enter the value to find in **Find value**.
   #. Enter the new value in **Replace with**.

   Only Companies that match the **Find value** get updated.

|

.. image:: images/companies_batch_selection_bar.png
  :width: 600
  :alt: Two selected Companies in the list with the selection bar showing Delete selected and the three-dot menu open on Find and Replace

|

You can also use **Find and Replace** without selecting any rows, from the list view, by clicking the gear icon to open the options. This applies the replacement to all Companies matching your current search.

|

.. image:: images/companies_find_and_replace_list_view.png
  :width: 600
  :alt: Companies list view with the gear icon menu open, showing the Find and Replace option

|

.. note::

>    To use **Find and Replace**, Users need a View permission - **View Own** or **View Others** - and an Edit permission - **Edit Own** or **Edit Others** - under **Contacts**. Users with only **Edit Own** can update Companies they own. Users with **Edit Others** can update any Company.

Reviewer: I think we can restructure to make this clearer.

```suggestion
.. note::

   To use **Find and Replace**, Users need these Role permissions under **Contacts**:
   
   * View permission - **View Own** or **View Others**
   * Edit permission - **Edit Own** or **Edit Others**
     
     Users with only **Edit Own** can update Companies they own, and those with **Edit Others** can update any Company.
```

These settings allow  Mautic to find and merge duplicate Companies during the import, using the Integrations Framework and in other parts of Mautic.

Batch changes
*************

To apply changes to several Companies at once, select the checkboxes next to the Company names. A selection bar appears at the top of the table, showing **Delete selected** and a three-dot icon for more options.

|

.. image:: images/companies_batch_selection_bar.png
  :alt: Two selected Companies in the list with the selection bar showing Delete selected and the three-dot menu open on Find and Replace

|

The following batch actions are available:

* **Delete Selected** - Deletes the selected Companies.
* **Find and Replace** - Replaces a value in a chosen field across all selected Companies. Selecting this action opens a dialog.

>    #. Choose the Company field to update. Search or scroll to find it in the list.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   #. Choose the **Company field** to update. Search or scroll to find it in the list.
```

These settings allow  Mautic to find and merge duplicate Companies during the import, using the Integrations Framework and in other parts of Mautic.

Batch changes
*************

> To apply changes to several Companies at once, select the checkboxes next to the Company names. A selection bar appears at the top of the table, showing **Delete selected** and a three-dot icon for more options.

Reviewer: Move the image `companies_batch_selection_bar.png` to after this paragraph.

|

.. image:: images/companies_batch_selection_bar.png

>   :width: 600

Reviewer: Remove the width.

   #. Click the three-dot icon to open this option and select **Find and Replace**. This opens a dialog.
   #. Choose the Company field to update. Search or scroll to find it in the list.
   #. Enter the value to find in **Find value**.
   #. Enter the new value in **Replace with**.

  Only Companies that match the **Find value** get updated.

  |

  .. image:: images/companies_batch_selection_bar.png
     :width: 600
     :alt: Two selected Companies in the list with the selection bar showing Delete selected and the three-dot menu open on Find and Replace

  |

>   You can also use this option without selecting any rows. Click the gear icon at the top of the table, then select **Find and Replace**. This applies the replacement to all Companies matching your current search.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  You can also use this option without selecting any rows. Click the gear icon at the top of the table to open the **Options**, then select **Find and Replace**. This applies the replacement to all Companies matching your current search.
```

  |

  .. image:: images/companies_find_and_replace_list_view.png

>      :width: 600

Reviewer: Remove the width

These settings allow  Mautic to find and merge duplicate Companies during the import, using the Integrations Framework and in other parts of Mautic.

Batch changes
*************

To apply changes to several Companies at once, select the checkboxes next to the Company names. A selection bar appears at the top of the table, showing **Delete selected** and a three-dot icon for more options.

|

.. image:: images/companies_batch_selection_bar.png
  :alt: Two selected Companies in the list with the selection bar showing Delete selected and the three-dot menu open on Find and Replace

> |

Reviewer: Remove the space.

```suggestion
.. image:: images/companies_batch_selection_bar.png
   :alt: Two selected Companies in the list with the selection bar showing Delete selected and the three-dot menu open on Find and Replace.
```

> The following batch actions are available:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following batch options are available:
```

* **Delete Selected** - Deletes the selected Companies.

> * **Find and Replace** - Replaces a value in a chosen field across all selected Companies. Selecting this action opens a dialog.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Find and Replace** - Replaces a value in a chosen field across all selected Companies. Selecting this option opens a dialog.
```

   #. Choose the **Company field** to update. Search or scroll to find it in the list.
   #. Enter the value to find in **Find value**.
   #. Enter the new value in **Replace with**.

  Find and Replace updates only Companies that match the **Find value**. Both **Find value** and **Replace with** are case sensitive, so the value you enter must match the stored value exactly. For example, if you find and replace on the Country field, entering 'United states' or 'united states' changes nothing - you must enter 'United States'.

  To update all Companies with a specific find and replace value, you don't need to select any checkboxes. In the Companies list table:

   #. Click the gear icon at the top of the table to open **Options**.
   #. Select **Find and Replace**.
   #. Choose the **Company field** to update. Search or scroll to find it in the list.
   #. Enter the value to find in **Find value**.
   #. Enter the new value in **Replace with**.

  |

  .. image:: images/companies_find_and_replace_list_view.png
     :alt: Companies list view with the gear icon menu open, showing the Find and Replace option

>   |

Reviewer: I think we better make a new standalone subsection for this part rather than squeeze it here.
Move this to after the note admonition and follow the suggestion below.

Apply the same thing for the Contacts.

```suggestion
Find and Replace for all Companies
==================================

To update all Companies with a specific find and replace value, you don't need to select any checkboxes. In the Companies list table:

   #. Click the gear icon at the top of the table to open **Options**.
   #. Select **Find and Replace**.
   #. Choose the **Company field** to update. Search or scroll to find it in the list.
   #. Enter the value to find in **Find value**.
   #. Enter the new value in **Replace with**.

  .. image:: images/companies_find_and_replace_list_view.png
     :alt: Companies list view with the gear icon menu open, showing the Find and Replace option

Case sensitivity and Role permission requirements are the same as for selected Companies.
  
```

These settings allow  Mautic to find and merge duplicate Companies during the import, using the Integrations Framework and in other parts of Mautic.

Batch changes
*************

To apply changes to several Companies at once, select the checkboxes next to the Company names. A selection bar appears at the top of the table, showing **Delete selected** and a three-dot icon for more options.

|

.. image:: images/companies_batch_selection_bar.png
   :alt: Two selected Companies in the list with the selection bar showing Delete selected and the three-dot menu open on Find and Replace.

> |

Reviewer: Remove the space.

```suggestion
.. image:: images/companies_batch_selection_bar.png
   :alt: Two selected Companies in the list with the selection bar showing Delete selected and the three-dot menu open on Find and Replace.
```

The following batch options are available:

* **Delete Selected** - Deletes the selected Companies.
* **Find and Replace** - Replaces a value in a chosen field across all selected Companies. Selecting this option opens a dialog.

   #. Choose the **Company field** to update. Search or scroll to find it in the list.
   #. Enter the value to find in **Find value**.
   #. Enter the new value in **Replace with**.

  Find and Replace updates only Companies that match the **Find value**. Both **Find value** and **Replace with** are case sensitive, so the value you enter must match the stored value exactly. For example, if you find and replace on the Country field, entering 'United states' or 'united states' changes nothing - you must enter 'United States'.

  .. note::

     To use **Find and Replace**, Users need these Role permissions under **Contacts**:

     * View permission - **View Own** or **View Others**
     * Edit permission - **Edit Own** or **Edit Others**

       Users with only **Edit Own** can update Companies they own, and those with **Edit Others** can update any Company.

> Find and Replace for all Companies
> ==================================

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. vale off

Find and Replace for all Companies
==================================

.. vale on
```

> To update all Companies with a specific find and replace value, you don't need to select any checkboxes. In the Companies list table:

Reviewer: We can make this clearer. Apply this as well for Contacts.

```suggestion
To update every Company that matches a specific Find and Replace value, you don't need to select any checkboxes. In the Companies list table:
```
